# Characterize-Network-Virtualization-and-Management-Tool
CS 553 Internet Services Final Project

Steps to install Zerotier Client:


1. Install zerotier in the local device or EC2 instance using the command 
curl -s https://install.zerotier.com | sudo bash 

2. Create a 16-digit network ID for the system to connect to Zerotier use the following link https://my.zerotier.com/network/93afae5963b55e77 and navigate to the networks tab

3. Click on the Create A network button and zerotier will generate a 16-digit network ID.

4. Joining the network from the local system or EC2 can be done through the terminal and Zerotier UI.

5. The command mentioned below is used to join a network through the terminal.

sudo zerotier-cli join <networkID>

6. Under the networks section, navigate to the members tab to look at the list of systems that joined the network.
  
Initial setup for encrypted tunnel using openTLS:

To establish secure communication between a server and clients, SSL/TLS certificates are required. In this context, the process of generating self-signed CA (Certificate Authority) certificates and server/client certificates using OpenSSL is explained.

1. The first step in this process is to generate a self-signed CA certificate. The CA certificate acts as the root certificate authority, which will be used to sign the server and client certificates. This CA certificate is generated with a specified validity period and does not require a passphrase.

A self-signed CA certificate is generated using the command:

openssl req -new -x509 -days 365 -nodes -out ca.crt -keyout ca.key -subj "/CN=My CA"


2. Next, a server private key and certificate signing request (CSR) are generated. The private key is used to securely identify the server, and the CSR contains the server’s public key and other identifying information. The CSR is then sent to the CA for signing.

A server private key and CSR are generated using the command:

openssl req -new -nodes -out server.csr -keyout server.key -subj "/CN=My Server"


3. To sign the server CSR and generate a server certificate, the CA certificate is used. The CA verifies the authenticity of the server’s CSR and signs it, creating a trusted server certificate. This certificate binds the server’s identity to its public key and contains other relevant information

To sign the server CSR with the CA certificate and generate a server certificate, the following command is used:

openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -out server.crt -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -CAcreateserial -days 365


4. Similarly, client certificates can be generated by following a similar process. The client private key and CSR are generated, and the CA signs the client CSR to produce a trusted client certificate. The client certificate allows the client to securely identify itself to the server.
 
To generate a client certificate:

openssl req -x509 -nodes -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout client.key -out client.crt -days 365

  
Note1: To test bandwidth code using the tunnel make sure iperf3 is installed . Command to install iperf3:
  
sudo apt install iperf3
  
Note2 : Make sure to use zerotier ip when running the encrypted tunnel server-client program.
  
  
To view the Demonstration Video, please download the mov file inside the Demonstration Video folder.
